this dance is called mud stomping and
it's by Pat Esper it's a 32 count to
mall it's listed as a beginner
intermediate dance it was originally
choreographed to go to cricket on the
line by Ford but we're gonna do it to
kickin up mud by the lass
we already do a dance to cricket online
so I wanted to find a different song and
I'm going to make a couple of
modifications in this dance to make it
an actual beginner dance and I did ask
the choreographer and he said it was
fine so thank you pat your dance is
awesome okay so this is much stomping
they're ready to cap to all no tags no
restarts we're going to start out with
the weight on the right foot we're gonna
do stomp clap stomp clap
so it's stomp clap then we're going to
shuffle left right left left right
then we're gonna stop right foot with
our right step our right foot and do a
syncopated he'll split so it's in okay
so with the counts for that verse of a
very first one it's one two three four
five and six seven and eight
there's little quick Heal jacks okay one
two three four five and six seven and
eight then we're gonna do
he calls its side and step side and slap
and you can slap or not but we're gonna
step slap step slap and then we're going
to bind to the right vine to the right
and step at this point you want to make
sure your weights on both evenly on both
feet let's do that first again the side
slip so it's side slap side slap fine to
the right your feet are together I'm
going to show you how the dance is
choreographed and then I'm gonna show
you the beginner option which I'm going
to be using okay he goes with our toes
out now in in that's four counts one two
three four if you're an experienced
dancer you
can do that or maybe you'll throw Apple
Jackson or whatever you want to do for
four counts but here's what I'm gonna do
we're just going to do to heal splits at
regular speed now in now and then the
end that verse of eight we're just going
to step up and up so it's up up now back
back back so with the heel splits and up
and back is eight counts let me do that
with the numbers it's one two three four
five six seven and eight we only have
one dress lift to go we're gonna do a
walking step a shuffle a half turn and
two walks so we're gonna go step lock
shuffle step half turn walk walk the
dance is choreographed instead of walk
walk you can do a full turn but to keep
it a beginner dance I'm gonna leave it
at that so let me do it from the
beginning we're ready to start our
weights on the right foot I'll show to
you from this angles two walls so it's
shuffle step fine to the right
he'll split he'll split out about in in
step shuffle step turn walk walk that's
the whole dance I'm gonna do it for
music this is real fun if I get you
started in the right place at inventory
goes to music this is kickin up mud by
the lacs